- Level design for RootTux -

Created on: May 2, 2026
Last update: June 7, 2026

This document describes how to make good levels for RootTux
To be clear, not all levels need to be the best thing ever
made. You just need to make them at least decent.

This is based on the SuperTux Milestone 2 Level Design
Guidelines document, which is why there's very similar 
wording.

The person who created the original levelguidelines.txt
from SuperTux is Wansti, I think.

Introduction
------------
These guidelines should be followed for any level that
appears in the official worlds.

Rules
-----
1. Don't mix tilesets! There shouldn't be any ice tiles in a
   forest level, unless there is an obvious reason (like
   a transition into another area)
2. Clearly distinguish between the layers. Players should be
   able to see immediately where they can safely walk and
   what is foreground and background. Avoid placing bonus
   blocks and items in the background.
3. Be careful not to create dead ends. The player should not
   be able to be softlocked in any level.
4. Test your level thoroughly to find possible paths you
   might have missed before that can be used to cheat.
5. Use everything the engine offers, but don't place it all
   in a single level!
6. Avoid large amounts of objects and enemies on the screen
   at once as it greatly decreases playability. Also, your
   level may not be playable on slower machines anymore.
7. Find the right difficulty! Too easy levels get boring
   very quickly while too hard ones can be frustrating.
   Levels you made can often appear a lot easier for yourself,
   so be sure to let other people test them.
8. Don't make your level too short or too long. Good size
   depends on the level's overall design, so there's no general
   "good" value. In longer levels, make sure there are enough
   checkpoints, so players won't have to repeat large portions
   of the level.
9. Secret areas should be well-hidden and not visible on
   first sight. Use your imagination to think of new ways to
   create secrets, like making a more difficult path that leads
   to a Tux Doll, for example. You should avoid using invisible
   blocks and hidden walls unless absolutely necessary as those
   can be very annoying.
